In this section of the course,
we will learn about network security
using IPtable rules.
In the previous section,
we saw how to use SSH to connect
to remote servers and copy
files remotely using SCP.
As long as the SSH service is running
on the remote server,
you should be able to connect
to the system from the client.
There are a couple of prerequisites though.
To connect to the remote server
you should have valid authentication
mechanisms such as username
and password based authentication
and SSH key based authentication.
Secondly, the network connection
must be open for port 22
from the client to the server.
In a real world production environment
that has many different clients
in many different servers,
all connected through a large network
with many different switches and routers,
it is important that we implement
network security to allow or restrict
access to the various services.
This allows us
to control network connectivity,
such as allowing SSH access
from a specific IP or a network range.
We can apply such security network-wide
using external firewalls or appliances
such as Cisco ASA,
Juniper next-gen firewall,
Barracuda next-gen firewall,
Fortinet, et-cetera.
Using these appliances,
you can define rules that will control
any traffic flowing through the network
or an alternate option is to apply
these rules at an individual server level
using tools such as IPtables
and FirewallD in Linux-based systems
and Firewalls in windows servers.
In this section, we will learn
how to implement local IPtable rules
and secure our server
in a Linux environment.
These rules will allow us to filter
network traffic within the Linux
operating system.
Let's take the example of the project
mercury environment
and set up firewall rules
on the application server
assume that the client laptop
has an IP address of 172.16.238.187.
We have two devservers,
the application server called DEVAPP01
with the IP of 172.16.238.10
and database server called DEVDB01
with the IP 172.16.238.11.
Since we do not have a firewall
configured at the moment,
every server can connect to every other
server in this network.
We want to improve security
by restricting network access.
From your laptop you should be allowed
to SSH to the app server.
The application server runs
a web application on port 80,
which should be accessible
from the client laptop,
but blocked from all other servers,
such as DEVDB01.
The database server runs
the DB on port 5432.
The app server should be able
to connect to this port on the DB
for the application to work.
The application server should also have
HTTP access to the software
repository server called caleston-repo-01.
To further safeguard
our application server we want
to be block outgoing internet access
on the app server.
Finally, we also want to make sure that
the DB server accepts connection
only from the app server on port 5432
and nowhere else.
Let's handle that the SSH connectivity
from the client to the devservers first.
To do this, first SHH to DEVAPP01 server.
To filter data traffic on the server,
we will make use of IPtables.
In Red Hat and CentOS systems
it should be installed by default.
However, on Ubuntu,
you may have to install it manually.
To install IPtables run sudo apt
install iptables.
Once the package is installed, run iptables -L
to list the default rules
configured in the system.
Since we just installed IPtables,
the output should look like this.
We will see three types of rules
or chains configured by default,
Input, forward and output.
The input chain is applicable
to network traffic coming into the system.
In this case, to allow the SSH connection
from the client laptop,
we would need to add an input rule
on the devapp server
permitting SSH connection.
The output chain is responsible
for connections initiated
by this server to other systems.
For example, when this application server
initiates a connection to another server,
such as a database server to query
or write some data.
The last type of chain is the forward chain.
This is typically used in network routers
where the data is forwarded
to other devices in the network.
This rule is not commonly used
in a Linux server.
Since we have not added any rules,
the default policy is set to accept.
This means all traffic is allowed
in and out of the system.
Now, why are these called a chain,
input or output chain?
That's because each chain
can have multiple rules within it.
It's a chain of rules.
Each rule performs a check
and accepts or drops the packet
based on the condition.
For example, the first rule in the input chain
may be to accept if the request
is coming from the client01
and the second rule may be to drop
the packet if the request
is coming in from client02.
mWhen a condition is met,
the packet is either accepted
or dropped based on the rule.
If the condition is not met
the package proceeds to the next rule
in the chain.
For example, say a request comes in
from the source client01.
Since it matches the first rule
and is set to accept,
the packet is accepted.
Say another request comes in
from the source client02.
It does not meet the first condition.
It proceeds to the next rule
and the chain.
Say a request comes in from client05.
It does not match the first condition,
nor the second, nor the third, nor the fourth.
The fifth rule is configured
to drop the packet if it originated
from any server, so it is dropped.
This chain of rules accepts any traffic
coming in from client01 or client03
or client04 and drops everything else.
Apart from the source
where the traffic originated,
we can also configure the condition
to consider the destination
where the traffic is headed to,
the port at which the traffic
is coming through,
as well as the protocol.
We will see how that works next.